-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HEADER:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Tested in this file: 
    The election security protocol implemented in plonevotecryptolib.
    
    Modules: 
        plonevotecryptolib.EGCryptoSystem
        plonevotecryptolib.KeyPair
        plonevotecryptolib.PublicKey
        plonevotecryptolib.PrivateKey
        plonevotecryptolib.Ciphertext
        plonevotecryptolib.Threshold.ThresholdEncryptionSetUp
        plonevotecryptolib.Threshold.ThresholdEncryptionCommitment
        plonevotecryptolib.Threshold.ThresholdPublicKey
        plonevotecryptolib.Threshold.ThresholdPrivateKey
        plonevotecryptolib.Threshold.PartialDecryption
        plonevotecryptolib.Threshold.ThresholdDecryptionCombinator
        plonevotecryptolib.Mixnet.CiphertextCollection
        plonevotecryptolib.Mixnet.ShufflingProof
    Files: 
        plonevotecryptolib/EGCryptoSystem.py
        plonevotecryptolib/KeyPair.py
        plonevotecryptolib/PublicKey.py
        plonevotecryptolib/PrivateKey.py
        plonevotecryptolib/Ciphertext.py
        plonevotecryptolib/Threshold/ThresholdEncryptionSetUp.py
        plonevotecryptolib/Threshold/ThresholdEncryptionCommitment.py
        plonevotecryptolib/Threshold/ThresholdPublicKey.py
        plonevotecryptolib/Threshold/ThresholdPrivateKey.py
        plonevotecryptolib/Threshold/PartialDecryption.py
        plonevotecryptolib/Threshold/ThresholdDecryptionCombinator.py
        plonevotecryptolib/Mixnet/CiphertextCollection.py
        plonevotecryptolib/Mixnet/ShufflingProof.py
        
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DESCRIPTION:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This file attempts to simulate the security subprotocol of a full election over 
the PloneVote system. It works entirely within one machine, simulating the 
different agents involved in a PloneVote election as dummy classes (Election, 
Voter and Trustee).

This doctest performs all cryptographic operations related to the election 
security, including the auditing process. As it tests this functionally, this 
file describes, in order, the steps of the election protocol for PloneVote, as 
it relates to its security goals.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
IMPORTS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Here we load all the plonevotecryptolib modules and classes that we will be 
using directly within this test (note that this test case exercises, directly 
or indirectly, most of the library).

    >>> from plonevotecryptolib.EGCryptoSystem import EGCryptoSystem
    >>> from plonevotecryptolib.Threshold.ThresholdEncryptionSetUp import \
    ...      ThresholdEncryptionSetUp
    >>> from plonevotecryptolib.Threshold.ThresholdDecryptionCombinator import \
    ...      ThresholdDecryptionCombinator
    >>> from plonevotecryptolib.Mixnet.CiphertextCollection import \
    ...      CiphertextCollection

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENTS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There are a few different agents involved with an election in PloneVote. For 
the purposes of this test, we will simulate each of them by a dummy class, 
containing only the information known by that agent.

An agent in PloneVote may be either an user (e.g. a voter, an election trustee 
or an auditor) or the PloneVote Server. To simplify our model, we will 
represent the PloneVote Server by an Election object, holding the information 
relating to a single election over said server. Note that the real PloneVote 
server should be capable of hosting many simultaneous elections.

The Election object will keep track of the election related information that we 
expect will be stored by the PloneVote Server during an actual election. This 
information includes:

    * The number of trustees in the election commission, as well as the 
    threshold of them required to perform vote decryption.
    * The public keys of each trustee (used for virtual private channels during 
    threshold scheme set-up).
    * The commitments of each trustee towards a particular key, used to set up 
    the threshold encryption scheme.
    * The threshold public key of the election.
    * The original collection of cast votes and the shuffled collections and 
    corresponding proofs of correct shuffling uploaded as part of the 
    shuffling/mixing process.
    * The partial decryptions of the final collection of votes (which contain 
    their own proofs of correct decryption).
    * The election results after the vote count has finished. In our case, the 
    results are merely the full list of decrypted votes.

The real election object in the PloneVote Server will most likely also include 
some configuration information related to the administrative aspects of the 
election (phase dates and times, information to voters, complains, voter 
authorization, etc) and the vote representation and counting scheme (including 
the list of candidates). However, we only model here the parts of the Election 
object, as stored in the server, that are relevant to the security subprotocol 
of PloneVote and to plonevotecryptolib.

Thus, our Election dummy class is defined as follows:

    >>> class Election:
    ...     num_trustees = 0    # Values will be set in the configuration phase
    ...     threshold = 0
    ...     trustee_pub_keys = []
    ...     commitments = []
    ...     threshold_pub_key = None
    ...     vote_collections = []
    ...     shuffling_proofs = []
    ...     partial_decryptions = []
    ...     results = []
    ...

We represent a voter by a class that holds their vote in plaintext, together 
with the vote receipt (as soon as it becomes available). In practice, the vote 
plaintext is not stored by the voter anywhere; it is captured at casting time, 
only to be immediately encrypted. We store the vote plaintext here just to make 
its value explicit.

    >>> class Voter:
    ...     vote = ""
    ...     receipt = ""
    ...

Election trustees are the members of the election commission. They perform vote 
collection shuffles to form a reencryption mixnet and perform collaborative 
vote decryption. We need each election trustee to store:
    
    * Their public and private key-pair for standard 1-to-1 ElGammal encryption 
    (used for virtual private channels during threshold scheme set-up).
    * Their commitment towards a particular key, used to set up the threshold 
    encryption scheme.
    * The fingerprint of the threshold scheme set-up they see when generating 
    each their own threshold key pair. This is a fingerprint on the set of 
    commitments for all trustees. It must be checked (using channels external 
    to the PloneVote server) that each trustee is seeing the same fingerprint.
    * Their threshold private key.
    
Thus, our Trustee dummy class looks like:

    >>> class Trustee:
    ...     key_pair = None
    ...     threshold_commitment = None
    ...     threshold_set_up_fingerprint = ""
    ...     threshold_priv_key = None
    ...

The auditor agent is implied in our description of the auditing phase. Since we 
don't need to store any information related to a particular auditor, we don't 
need a dummy class to represent her either.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CONFIGURATION PHASE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The configuration phase is the first phase of an election in PloneVote. During 
this phase, the general configuration parameters of the election are given and 
the threshold encryption scheme is set-up.

First, we instantiate a particular Election dummy object:

    >>> election = Election()

We will run our election with an election commission formed by five trustees, 
three of which will need to cooperate to perform the vote counting process. We 
give the correct configuration:

    >>> election.num_trustees = 5
    >>> election.threshold = 3
    
prepare some empty arrays to hold trustee-indexed objects within the Election:

    >>> election.trustee_pub_keys = \
    ...                [None for i in range(0, election.num_trustees)]
    >>> election.commitments = [None for i in range(0, election.num_trustees)]

and instantiate dummy objects to represent our trustees:

    >>> trustees = [Trustee() for i in range(0, election.num_trustees)]

Now, only the threshold scheme set-up is left. This is a three round process.

FIRST ROUND:

During the first round of threshold scheme set-up, virtual private channels are 
established between each pair of trustees. To accomplish this, each trustee 
generates a standard ElGamal key pair and registers her public key with the 
server. Each trustee may then retrieve the public key of any other trustee from 
the server and use it to send private messages to her, using the server as an 
insecure bulletin board.

It is recommended, in a real election, that each trustee save the fingerprint 
of their public key and convey it to all other trustees by some channel 
outside of the PloneVote server. Before accepting the key of a fellow trustee, 
each trustee is adviced to check that its fingerprint correctly matches that 
given to her by the owner of the key.

All keys for the election (1-to-1 and threshold) will be generated for the same 
ElGamal instance. We load one such instance as our general cryptosystem:

    >>> cryptosys = EGCryptoSystem.from_file( \
    ...  "../../data/shared/cryptosystems/default1024bits.pvcryptosys")

Note: We use a 1024 bits cryptosystem to make this tests run faster. In 
    practice, a 2048 or 4096 bits cryptosystem may be more adequate.

Now, each trustee generates her own 1-to-1 ElGamal key pair and stores the 
public key in the server (election object):
    
    >>> for i in range(0, election.num_trustees):
    ...     trustees[i].key_pair = cryptosys.new_key_pair()
    ...     election.trustee_pub_keys[i] = trustees[i].key_pair.public_key
    ...

SECOND ROUND:

During the second round of threshold scheme set-up, each trustee generates her 
commitment towards the threshold scheme. 

PloneVoteCryptoLib provides the class ThresholdEncryptionSetUp, a mediator that 
simplifies the commitment generation protocol. Each trustee constructs their 
own instance of ThresholdEncryptionSetUp, feeds it the 1-to-1 public keys of 
all other trustees (as well as her own, taken from local storage) and uses it 
to generate a ThresholdEncryptionCommitment object. This object contains both, 
the public commitments (also referred in our more theoretical documentation as 
"public coefficients" or just "commitments"), as well as the partial private  
key information intended for each other trustee. The partial private keys are 
encrypted with the 1-to-1 public key of the trustee to whom they are addressed, 
so that, even though the full ThresholdEncryptionCommitment object is public, 
those pieces can only be used by their intended recipient. We say that they are 
transmitted by virtual private channels, constructed using the 1-to-1 
encryption keys.

The following code does the commitment generation for all trustees and uploads 
said commitments to the server:

    >>> for i in range(0, election.num_trustees):
    ...     
    ...     # Each trustee...
    ...     #  Constructs its own ThresholdEncryptionSetUp object.
    ...     tesu = ThresholdEncryptionSetUp(cryptosys, election.num_trustees, \
    ...                                     election.threshold)
    ...     
    ...     #  Retrieves all the 1-to-1 public keys of the other trustees and 
    ...     #  registers them with the ThresholdEncryptionSetUp object.
    ...     for j in range(0, election.num_trustees):
    ...         pub_key = election.trustee_pub_keys[j]
    ...         tesu.add_trustee_public_key(j, pub_key)
    ...     
    ...     #  Uses that ThresholdEncryptionSetUp object to generate its own 
    ...     #  commitment.
    ...     trustees[i].threshold_commitment = tesu.generate_commitment()
    ...
    ...     #  and uploads it to the server
    ...     election.commitments[i] = trustees[i].threshold_commitment
    ...
    
Once all commitments have been uploaded to the server, the server itself can 
automatically generate the threshold public key of the election on its own. 

    >>> server_tesu = ThresholdEncryptionSetUp(cryptosys,  \
    ...                 election.num_trustees, election.threshold)
    >>> for j in range(0, election.num_trustees):
    ...     server_tesu.add_trustee_commitment(j, election.commitments[j])
    ...
    >>> election.threshold_pub_key = server_tesu.generate_public_key()
    
We must keep in mind that, in order for us to be able to trust the threshold 
public key generated by the server, the election commission must still generate 
this same key in a distributed secure manner (see third round below) and 
compare the resulting key's fingerprint with that of the key constructed by the 
server.

    
THIRD ROUND:

During the third round, each trustee downloads the commitments for all other 
trustees, generates the threshold scheme's fingerprint (which later must  
compare with that obtained by other trustees) and produces both the threshold  
public key for the election (to compare it against that published by the 
server) and her own threshold private key.

The fingerprint of the threshold public key for the election obtained by each 
trustee should also be published, through a channel external to the PloneVote 
server, in order to make it harder for a malicious server to alter this key 
without being discovered.

Once again, ThresholdEncryptionSetUp is used to mediate this process. It is 
necessary to register each trustee's commitment with an instance of this class 
before either the threshold scheme fingerprint or keys can be generated. The 
public keys of other trustees are no longer needed (since we are sending no 
further messages to them). The private key of the current trustee is required 
to obtain her own threshold private key (the 1-on-1 private key is used to 
decrypt the parts of the other trustee's commitments containing their 
contribution towards the threshold private key of the current trustee).

The following code does the threshold scheme fingerprint and threshold key pair 
generation for all trustees:

    >>> for i in range(0, election.num_trustees):
    ...     
    ...     # Each trustee...
    ...     #  constructs its own ThresholdEncryptionSetUp object.
    ...     tesu = ThresholdEncryptionSetUp(cryptosys, election.num_trustees, \
    ...                                     election.threshold)
    ...     
    ...     #  Retrieves all the commitments of the other trustees and 
    ...     #  registers them with the ThresholdEncryptionSetUp object.
    ...     for j in range(0, election.num_trustees):
    ...         commitment = election.commitments[j]
    ...         tesu.add_trustee_commitment(j, commitment)
    ...     
    ...     #  Generates and stores the threshold scheme fingerprint.
    ...     #  (Later, this should be compared with the fingerprints obtained 
    ...     #  by all other trustees.)
    ...     trustees[i].threshold_set_up_fingerprint = tesu.get_fingerprint()
    ...
    ...     #  Generates the threshold key pair corresponding to herself.
    ...     #  For that, she must provide her 1-to-1 private key.
    ...     priv_key = trustees[i].key_pair.private_key
    ...     t_key_pair = tesu.generate_key_pair(i, priv_key)
    ...
    ...     #  Obtains the threshold public key and compares it against that 
    ...     #  published by the server.
    ...     t_pub_key = t_key_pair.public_key
    ...     if (t_pub_key.get_fingerprint() != 
    ...         election.threshold_pub_key.get_fingerprint()):
    ...         assert False,"ERROR: threshold public key fingerprint mismatch."
    ...
    ...     #  Obtains and stores her own threshold private key
    ...     trustees[i].threshold_priv_key = t_key_pair.private_key
    ...

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
VOTING PHASE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The voting phase is where each voter emits their own vote and those votes are 
initially captured by the server. Each voter votes through a web client that 
executes entirely on a machine controlled by said voter. This client encrypts 
their vote and returns a voting receipt: a fingerprint of the encrypted vote.

We need somewhere in the server to store the votes, so we instantiate an 
empty initial vote collection.

    >>> pub = election.threshold_pub_key
    >>> election.vote_collections.append(CiphertextCollection(pub))

We instantiate a few dummy voters, each with a dummy vote to cast (in 
plaintext). In the real system, this plaintext is never stored and each voter 
just inputs their preferences on the web client, which encrypts the vote as 
soon as those preferences have been fully given.

    >>> voters = []
    >>> for i in range(0,20):
    ...     voter = Voter()
    ...     voter.vote = "Dummy vote #%d" % i
    ...     voters.append(voter)
    ...
    
Each voter uses the web client to download the threshold public key for the 
current election from the server, encrypt their vote and generate a vote 
receipt (as a SHA-256 hash of the encrypted vote, block by block). Finally, the 
voter casts her vote to the server. We simulate this process below.

Note: In the final system, the voter will be required to authenticate and be 
    authorized to vote in the current election in order for her vote to be 
    captured.

    >>> for i in range(0,20):
    ...     t_pub_key = election.threshold_pub_key
    ...     encrypted_vote = t_pub_key.encrypt_text(voters[i].vote)
    ...     voters[i].receipt = encrypted_vote.get_fingerprint()
    ...     election.vote_collections[0].add_ciphertext(encrypted_vote)
    ...

After the time alloted for the Voting Phase concludes, the server should 
automatically transfer to the Counting Phase.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
COUNTING PHASE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the point of view of the security subprotocol, the counting phase of the 
election is divided into two stages. In the first stage, at least 
election.threshold trustees verifiably shuffle the votes. In the second stage, 
the same number of trustees collaborate to decrypt the final collection of 
shuffled votes.

For the purposes of this test, we will select k=election.threshold trustees at 
random here, who will perform both the shuffling and decryption of the votes.

    >>> import random
    >>> cooperating_trustee_idxs = [i for i in range(0, election.num_trustees)]
    >>> random.shuffle(cooperating_trustee_idxs)
    >>> cooperating_trustee_idxs = cooperating_trustee_idxs[:election.threshold]

SHUFFLING STAGE:

Each of the election.threshold trustees shuffles the votes sequentially. To do 
so, each trustee downloads the last available collection of votes, shuffles 
that collection, generating a zero-knowledge proof of shuffling, and uploads 
both the new collection and the proof. This new collection becomes the 
collection the next trustee would download for shuffling.

    >>> for i in cooperating_trustee_idxs:
    ...
    ...     # trustee i dowloads the last available collection of votes
    ...     current_collection = election.vote_collections[-1]
    ...
    ...     #  shuffles with proof
    ...     (new_collection, proof) = current_collection.shuffle_with_proof()
    ...
    ...     #  uploads the shuffled collection of votes and the proof
    ...     election.vote_collections.append(new_collection)
    ...     election.shuffling_proofs.append(proof)
    ...

DECRYPTION STAGE:

After the collection of encrypted votes has been shuffled election.threshold 
times, the trustees must collaborate to decrypt it. Each trustee is asked to 
generate a verifiable partial decryption of the last available shuffled set of 
votes. When election.threshold partial decryptions are available for each 
particular vote, this partial decryptions can be combined to recover the 
plaintext for that vote.

All this partial decryptions are uploaded to the server, clearly indicating to 
which trustee and vote they correspond to. Here we simply use a list of lists 
to store the partial decryptions on the server. The outer index indicates which 
trustee uploaded the decryptions and the inner lists contain the partial 
decryptions of votes in the same order as they appear in the last shuffled 
collection.

    >>> election.partial_decryptions = \
    ...     [None for i in range(0, election.num_trustees)]

Now we simulate each trustee, in our designated cooperating_trustee_idxs group 
of trustees, as she creates and uploads her partial decryptions:

    >>> for i in cooperating_trustee_idxs:
    ...
    ...     # trustee i downloads the last available collection of votes
    ...     votes = election.vote_collections[-1]
    ...
    ...     #  Generates a partial decryption for each vote in the collection 
    ...     #  using her threshold private key.
    ...     priv = trustees[i].threshold_priv_key
    ...     part_decryptions = []
    ...     for vote in votes:
    ...         p_dec = priv.generate_partial_decryption(vote)
    ...         part_decryptions.append(p_dec)
    ...
    ...     # Uploads all partial decryptions in order.
    ...     election.partial_decryptions[i] = part_decryptions
    ...

After enough partial decryptions are available, the PloneVote Server combines 
them to obtain the plaintext of the votes. To combine the partial decryptions, 
the mediator class ThresholdDecryptionCombinator is used. This class 
automatically checks the proof of correct partial decryption (included within 
each PartialDecryption object) before accepting each partial decryption for 
combination.

    >>> votes = election.vote_collections[-1]
    >>> for i in range(0, votes.get_length()):
    ...
    ...     # Set up the ThresholdDecryptionCombinator for this particular vote.
    ...     vote_ciphertext = votes[i]
    ...     combinator = ThresholdDecryptionCombinator(
    ...                     election.threshold_pub_key,
    ...                     vote_ciphertext,
    ...                     election.num_trustees,
    ...                     election.threshold)
    ...
    ...     # Add the partial decryptions to the combinator.
    ...     for j in cooperating_trustee_idxs:
    ...         vote_part_dec = election.partial_decryptions[j][i]
    ...         combinator.add_partial_decryption(j, vote_part_dec)
    ...
    ...     # Combine the partial decryptions to recover the vote's plaintext.
    ...     vote_plaintext = combinator.decrypt_to_text()
    ...
    ...     # and add it to the election's results.
    ...     election.results.append(vote_plaintext) 
    ...

Finally votes are counted within the server, in a way that depends on the vote 
representation and counting scheme, and voter friendly results are published 
for the election.

In this test, we only check that the decrypted votes are the same as those cast 
originally by the voters:

    >>> for voter in voters:
    ...     if voter.vote not in election.results:
    ...         assert False, "ERROR: Cast vote not found in results"
    ...

Note: The previous test is complete as long as there are no repeated votes, 
    as with our current example. If there were repeated votes, each such vote 
    should appear in the results once for each time it was cast. We may want to 
    test that this is true in a different test file.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AUDITING PHASE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


